docs(SDB): add new terms to concept page MTA-3562 (#2047)
scaleway/docs-content: serverless/sql-databases/concepts.mdx

---

<Concept opened>
## Active state

> A database is in an active state when it receives queries frequently (at least one every 15 minutes). If it receives no query for 15 minutes, the database switches to an idle state.

Reviewer: one every 5 minutes currently.
```suggestion
A database is in an active state when it receives queries frequently (at least one every 5 minutes). If it receives no query for 5 minutes, the database switches to an idle state and corresponding billing for compute capacity will stop.
```

> A database is in an active state when it receives queries frequently (at least once every 5 minutes). If it receives no query for 5 minutes, the database switches to an idle state, and the billing for compute capacity will stop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A database is in an active state when it receives queries frequently (at least once every 5 minutes). If it receives no query for 5 minutes, the database switches to an idle state, and the billing for compute capacity stops.
```

</Concept>

<Concept opened>
## Backup

> A database backup is a copy of the operational state, architecture and stored data of a database. It allows to restore a database if it crashes, is corrupted or is lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A database backup is a copy of the data stored in the database (including data structure such as tables). Database backups in Serverless SQL Database are logical backups (as opposed to raw disk volume backups, also called 'Snapshots'). Database backups can be restored in the current database or any other PostgreSQL database and allows to recover from database crash, data corruption or data loss.
```

</Concept>

<Concept opened>
## Cold start

Cold start is the time an idle database takes to handle the first request. It usually takes less than five seconds.
</Concept>

<Concept>
## Connection pooling

Connection pooling is a cache of database connections maintained so that the connections can be reused when future requests to the database are required. It enhances performance of executing commands on a database. 
</Concept>

<Concept>
## Credentials

Credentials let you connect to your database via a secret key.
</Concept>

<Concept>
## Engine

A database engine is the software that stores and retrieves your data from a database. Serverless SQL databases use the PostgreSQL engine.
</Concept>

<Concept>
## High availability

> Databases are replicated on a copy of themselves that is not accessible by the user. This "standby" database guarantees that the service remains available in case of failure.

Reviewer: The suggested definition corresponds more to "Read replicas". It's a way of providing High Availability, but we currently don't plan to use this feature to provide High Availability (ie. mainly because this doubles-up costs, and we might be able to juste restart a database if one crashes on the VM it's currently hosted on).
We will  provide more concrete information to the users when HA is defined and proven. However this is a complicated topic related to SLAs, so I suggest we keep these information for now.
```suggestion
Databases can become unavailable due to several issues (host crashes, disk corruption, network unavailability...) High Availability means being able to ensure database stays available most of the time and recovers fast from issues so that applications relying on it stay available.
```

</Concept>

<Concept>
## Idle

> A database switches to an idle state if it receives no query for 15 minutes. You are not billed for compute resources while your database is in an idle state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A database switches to an idle state if it receives no query for 5 minutes. You are not billed for compute resources while your database is in an idle state.
```

</Concept>

<Concept>
## Logs

> Logs register the activity of your database. they provide useful information for debugging or to know more about the behavior and activity of your databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs register the activity of your database. They provide useful information for debugging or to know more about the behavior and activity of your databases.
```

> ## Engine

Reviewer 3: Maybe it makes sense to write it as "Database engine" ?
```suggestion
## Database engine
```

</Concept>

<Concept>
## PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is an open source object-relational database system known for its reliability, robustness, and performance. 
</Concept>

<Concept>
## Region and AZ

<Macro id="region-and-az" />

> 

Reviewer: To be removed for now ? (or completed with existing definitions from other products?)

Author: The macro parses a cross-product definition as it is widely reused content

</Concept>

<Concept>
## Relational database

> A database type that uses the relational model, which means that it stores and provides access to inter-related data points within the same database. Relational databases provide an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables.

Reviewer: To be kept if it's already the one used for Managed Databases.
However, I would probably find something like the following clearer:
```suggestion
A database type that uses the relational model and also usually can be queried with SQL language. In the relational model, different data objects are usually stored in different tables, which can be linked by common ids or keys. Relational databases provide an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables, which usually favors data normalization and provide the strongest data consistency guarantees (compared to NoSQL alternatives)
```

> Databases can become unavailable due to several issues (host crashes, disk corruption, network unavailability, etc.). High Availability allows to ensure that databases stay available most of the time and recover quickly from issues so that applications relying on them remain available as well.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Databases can become unavailable due to several issues (host crashes, disk corruption, network unavailability, etc.). High Availability ensures that databases stay available most of the time and recover quickly from issues so that applications relying on them remain available as well.
```

</Concept>

<Concept>
## Serverless database

A serverless database is a fully managed database-as-a-service (DBaaS) that allocates and scales compute and storage resources automatically to match the incoming workload.
</Concept>

<Concept>
## Status

> The status of a database changes according to its activity. It can be either "active" or "idle".

Reviewer: Technically, we have other status, such as "setting up" or "error": https://confluence.infra.online.net/display/PSSSD/Databases+status
But I don't think it's useful to describe them here.

> A database type that relies on the relational model and that can be queried using the SQL language. In the relational model, different data objects are stored in different tables, which can be linked by common IDs, or keys. Relational databases provide an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables, which favors data normalization and provide the strongest data consistency guarantees (compared to NoSQL alternatives).

Reviewer 2: `Relational databases **provide** an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables, which favors data normalization, and **provide** the strongest data consistency guarantees (compared to NoSQL alternatives).`

ou 

`Relational databases provide an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables, which **favors** data normalization and **provides** the strongest data consistency guarantees (compared to NoSQL alternatives).`
